.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii voacapl.man
.\"
.TH VOACAPL 1 "SEO 2013" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
voacapl \- HF propagation prediction program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dst2csv
\n
.B dst2csv
.B dst_directory
\n
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a small utility to convert the binary record file produced when performing
distance calculations to a CSV file for further processing. .SH OPTIONS
.IP dst_directory
The loctaion of the .dst file and corresponding .idx file.  The output csv file
is saved in this directory.  If this parameter is not specified, the current
working directory will be used.
.SH EXAMPLES
voacapl ~/itshfbc
\n
Reads the default input file (~/itshfbc/run/voacapx.dat) performs a prediction calculation and saves the results in the default output
file (~/itshfbc/run/voacapx.out).  In this example, the itshfbc directory is defined as a sub-directory of the users home folder.

voacapl ~/itshfbc infile.dat outfile.out
\n
Reads infile.dat and save the results of the calculations in the file outfile.out.  Both of the files should be located in the directory '~/itshfbc/run'.

voacapl --run-dir=/tmp/myrunndir ~/itshfbc infile.dat outfile.out
\n
Performs a prediction defined by infile.dat and saves the results of the calculations
in the file outfile.out.  The input file should be placed in the directory defined by the
run-dir parameter.
\n
voacapl --absorption-mode=a ~/itshfbc infile.dat outfile.out
\n
Sets the absorption model used by the prediction to 'a' (Alex's changes with
IONCAP absorption).  Reads infile.dat and save the results of the calculations
in the file outfile.out.  Both of the files should be located in the
directory '~/itshfbc/run'.

voacapl ~/itshfbc area calc testfile.voa

Performs an area calculation using the file 'testfile.voa' as input.  The output file(s) will be saved as testfile.vg_ in the same directory as testfile.voa.

voacapl ~/itshfbc batch

Performs a batch calculation using the file voacapw.asc as a template file to which the modifications defined in the circuit file (voacap.cir) are applied.
.SH FILES
.I itshfbc/
.RS
Voacapl requires access to a number of data files found within the 'itshfbc' directory structure.  Input and output files are written to itshfbc/run.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
VOACAP does not make use of any environmental variables.
.SH BUGS
Performance is unpredictable if the path to the itshfbc directory contains spaces or is more than 52 characters long.  This is a limitation of the legacy DOS based file handling procedures and will be addressed in future versions of voacapl.
.SH AUTHOR
This program was ported to GFortran by James Watson <jimwatson at mac dot com> using code that was originally developed by the NTIA/ITS
and is currently maintained by Greg Hand.
.SH "ACKNOWLEDGMENTS"
VOACAP is an improved and corrected version of IONCAP, retaining all of the theory as put forth by John Lloyd, George Haydon, Donald Lucas
and Larry Teters in the 1975-1985 time-frame with modifications which were suggested/approved by George Lane, Donald Lucas, George Haydon
and A. D. Spaulding.  Major improvements in efficiency, coding corrections and ease of understanding the IONCAP program were made by
Franklin Rhoads of the U.S. Navy Research Laboratory under the sponsorship of the Voice of America (1985-1996). Many of the newer
features in VOACAP and VOAAREA were designed and implemented by Gregory Hand at the Institute for Telecommunication Sciences who
created VOAAREA and made many significant improvements to VOACAP.

Porting this program to GFortran would not be possible without the generous help and assistance of Gregory Hand.

Portions of this man page have been reproduced with permission from the www.voacap.com website, maintained by Jari Perkiomaki.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
www.voacap.com
